		Before, I were never sure of what Computer Engineering was all about. Most of people’s perception
	about this course is that students studying this field will be good on troubleshooting computers, even
	radios! Well, this is when I did not know that there is more to a computer engineering student than
	troubleshooting stuffs yet. (Basically, before getting acquainted with programming languages) On my first
	couple of years, I have encounters on people asking me to check their computer monitors, computer system 
	units, printers and even repair their radios while some people would ask stuffs about the internet. At this
	point of my college life, I was kind of thinking that troubleshooting subject should be offered in the earlier
	stage of the curriculum. I have been looking forward to take Troubleshooting subject because as a student of 
	this course, I do want to have enough knowledge and provide answers to what these people need. And I guess, 
	it also goes the same thing with my classmates not just me, they have been looking forward on taking the 
	subject because we thought that in this subject, there are a lot of things to learn and skills to develop.

		By definition, troubleshooting is a form of problem solving, often applied to repair failed products or
	processes on a machine or a system. It is a logical, systematic search for the source of a problem in order to
	solve it, and make the product or process operational again. Troubleshooting is needed to identify the symptoms.
	Determining the most likely cause is a process of elimination—eliminating potential causes of a problem. Finally,
	troubleshooting requires confirmation that the solution restores the product or process to its working state. 
	In general, troubleshooting is the identification or diagnosis of "trouble" in the management flow of a corporation
	or a system caused by a failure of some kind. The problem is initially described as symptoms of malfunction, and 
	troubleshooting is the process of determining and remedying the causes of these symptoms.
	
		Upon taking the subject now, I realized that I have expected too much from it. “TROUBLESHOOTING”. Reading it
	in my COR holds a lot of promise to every student in my course who are “doing good but not pretty GREAT” in the
	software side of this field and who are wishing to make it up to its hardware side. At first, I was very disappointed
	upon knowing that what we are all going to do in the subject will be a plain reporting. Well, I know that it’s kind 
	of blessing on the other hand because this subject won’t load us with heavy projects, just report the topics you are
	assigned to and you are good to go. The reporting went great and reporters really made it sure that we get to learn
	a lot of things about their topics. Then, there were periods- three I guess, that had no classes because of the
	absence of instructor. Although it helped to give time to other subjects, it was still a big loss to us. (And now 
	I feel bad, because although it really was a loss to miss these periods still I liked it. You know, nobody doesn’t 
	like vacant periods.)
	
		After the transition in changing of instructors, there’s not much change done in the class, just the instructor. 
	I commend how our new instructor adjusted for in fact he was new to this stuff, teaching. I really saw the effort on
	how he adjusted to us given that he had big shoes to fill. There could be much pressure from the expectations of his 
	colleagues and his students. He is also very open minded. He listens to what everyone would say and he would consider
	everyone’s suggestions. Also, he is willing to help everyone in other stuffs. I like it that he continued the reporting 
	where we stopped and never created another course outline. He has also given us one activity that involved raspberry pi
	and a system unit. 
	
		All I can say is that the subject has helped us understand deeply the main components of the computer and somehow 
	taught us the real essence of the subject which is “troubleshooting” -theoretically. However, for me the whole experience 
	in the subject lacks the exposure and hands-on activities. I think that it could have been great and very helpful if we 
	could apply what we learn theoretically through laboratory experiments. Even though we have done it once, I think it was
	never enough. It is understandable though that the school is lacking of resources and that the subject program’s time 
	frame was affected by the change of instructor [because the transition took too much time]. It is such a loss on us 
	because we were not able to maximize the learnings we could have get from this subject. There could have been more to
	what we learned at this point. Now, it would be our responsibility as the students to expand this knowledge and hone 
	skills on troubleshooting for us to grow in this field that we chose. 
	
		I do thank our instructor, Engr. Perin for a great job handling this subject. He has been amazing on the craft, 
	not bad for a first timer. He has been very patient, considerate and helpful to everyone in the class. I also admire
	his patriotism. I admire how he appreciate our culture and how he share fractions of his knowledge on us on things that
	could remind us of our roots. He is such an inspiration.
		As a student, it is never really about how much topics we tackled and how far we have come in the class that could
	describe an efficient instructor. For me, it is about how deep his/her impact to the student, how he/she has touched and
	inspired his/her students’ lives. Because at the end of the day, those topics in the course outline can be learned 
	in google while life lessons and values are gifts from people who come and go in your life that can never be searched
	in the internet.



